---
published: true
layout: press
contact: "contact@allsporter.com"
stories: true
genres: PressRelease
guest: false
#canonical: ""

author: https://twitter.com/0xfunn
author_name: 0xfunn
author_twitter: "0xfunn"

date: 2018-08-01 10:25:00 -0300
title: "AllSporter Platform Intro: Tokenized App for Sports Sharing Economy"
description: "Polish sharing economy project for sports gear and training fully operational with PayPal payments is going blockchain."

comments: false
tickers: false

slug: allsporter/
german: false
cz: false

image:
- "/features/2018/allsporter-intro.png"
image_alt:
- "Allsporter Coin Announcement"

categories: ["press", "news", "features"]
tags: [ "allsporter", "allsportercoin", "blockchain-sports", "blockchain-technology"]

about:
 name: "allsporter"
 sameas: ["https://allsportercoin.io"]
---

AllSporter is a Polish sharing economy project for sports gear and training classes. The marketplace has been fully operational since 2017 via a smartphone app with PayPal payments, the next step is to go blockchain for more affordable payments processing and other perks.

The company is issuing a cryptocoin - the AllSporter Coin has an ongoing token airdrop ($ALL, ERC20) with a token sale coming up in September.

## About AllSporter

#### Anyone can learn a new sports skill

When you want to try something new like skating on a longboard you don’t need to buy the gear. You can rent it with the AllSporter app, just as you don't buy a house when you want to try living in Paris for a month.

It doesn't end here: With AllSporter you can look for someone nearby who will teach you how to ride. Both functionalities are available in the AllSporter app, clear and effortless.

AllSporter is issuing a token (AllSporter Coin, $ALL) to set up a marketplace in the peer-to-peer mode without the middleman. The peer-to-peer payment solution on blockchain has a practical impact in this case: it makes possible to decrease the app **commission from 60% to 15%**.

#### How AllSporter started

In the middle of snowy winter, December 2017 in Poland, focusing on the Warsaw area AllSporter was able to successfully test and launch the initial training booking application. Not bad considering the test was carried out on a group of bears during their winter sleep.

Since then the smartphone app has attracted both trainers [3000] and amateur sportsperson [5000] to become loyal users of the marketplace. The developers collected their feedback and implemented the most often requested changes, which resulted in a more tailored app.

#### Why tokenize AllSporter?

AllSporter ($ALL) tokens will be used for smoother and less costly payment processing.

The system is automated by a smart contract to distribute earnings for trainers and rentals. In addition, with tokenization comes a tokenized reward system for all system participants which will help with building and consolidating the AllSporter community.

#### AllSporter Team

The CEO & founder [Michal Polanowski](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michal-polanowski-63699996/) is an entrepreneur and sportsman with background in renewable energy business. On top of it he is also a former windsurfing World Champion in FWC Class and actual formula windsurfing European Champion.

Below an interview with the CEO published on the *Crypto Academy* YouTube channel in May 2018.

<amp-youtube
          data-videoid="OXEWtUMrJlE"
          layout="responsive"
          width="700" height="360">
</amp-youtube>

<br>

The rest of the team consists of business advisors, sport ambassadors and technology experts with history in the sports industry, fintech, innovation and app development (ex-employees of Uber, Google, Rocket Internet, Billon, Rossignol).

#### AllSporter Token Sale

The ICO has been first noticed when the investor Ian Balina spoke about AllSporter in Berlin during the Roadshow event.

There have been considerable private contributions but the tokens granted in exchange for that have a 24-month lock down period.

The public token sale starts in September 2018 and goes on for three months with discounts up to 30% in the pre-sale round. Whitelisting is open now.

More information: [allsportercoin.io/#token-sale](https://allsportercoin.io/#token-sale)

Funds accumulated during ICO will be allocated mainly into a large scale international promotion campaign to conquer new markets and for the dev team expansion.

#### AllSporter Airdrop & Bounty

Token Airdrop is available at [allsportercoin.io](http://bit.ly/atnet-allsporter), promo bounty will be released soon. Tokens distribute after the ICO (December 2018).

*Author's Disclosure: I am/we are not having an open position in $ALL nor
the intention to open one within 48 hours of publishing.*

*Editor's note: The author have not responded to our requests with questions. The company let us know he has no affiliation with them.*

*AllSporter has a verified Google Business address at Łotewska 17/7, 03-918 Warszawa, Poland.*
