---
published: true
layout: press
contact: "Homepage https://coins4favors.com/ / Social media team @Coins4Favors"
stories: true
genres: PressRelease
guest: false

date: 2018-03-30 01:35:00 -0300
title: "Coins4Favors ICO and Bounty Announcement"
description: "Introduction of Coins4Favors, announcing their ICO and bounty programs."

author: https://twitter.com/altcointrading_
author_name: "News.AltcoinTrading.NET"
author_twitter: "@altcointrading_"

comments: false
tickers: false

slug: coins4favors/
german: false
cz: false

image:
- "/features/2018/coins4favors.png"
image_alt:
- "Coins4Favors Press Release"

categories: ["press", "news", "features"]
tags: [ "Coins4Favors", "gig-economy", "erc20", "ico", "bounty"]

about:
 name: "Coins4Favors"
 sameas: ["https://coins4favors.com/"]
---

## About the platform

Coins4Favors (C4F) is a peer-to-peer marketplace facilitating mini-jobs paid for with FavorCoins (ERC20). The core of the project is the C4F app with GPS location matching and blockchain-based escrow. The app together with the borderless property of paying with cryptocurrency aims to disrupt the gig economy.

[The Platform Homepage](https://coins4favors.com/)

With 2.5 billion smartphone users, C4F is betting on the tokenization of simple daily tasks in the realtime. A blockchain-powered marketplace with its in-house cryptocurrency traded on major exchanges has the advantage of not needing expensive financial processing, payments for tasks are similar to game tokens and their exchange into fiat currencies is handled off-platform. Combined with automatic escrow run by a smart contract that is released once the task is marked completed and with the precise GPS locator in the app, C4F can target even small favors that undeniably have value but have not been monetized yet: „I will be	in street	X	in 15	minutes	– keep a parking spot	available	for	me“ or „Take a picture for me in	a	remote location“.

The main goals the the Coins4Favors platform:

* Build a world-wide marketplace for favors, use the GPS locator to avoid making the search for job or contractor tedious and confusing.
* Instant borderless payments facilitated by cryptocurrency that can be exchanged for fiat off-platform.
* Trust between service provider and customer not needed, payments handled by escrow.
* Community-driven rating system and dispute resolution - acting as a judge will also be a paid favor.

A working alpha version of the app already exists. At this stage it is critical for the platform to gain as big reach as possible and to have the FavorTokens listed on common cryptocurrency exchanges. Therefore the funds raised in the crowdsale are planned to be used primarily on a strong international campaign and to ensure international legal compliance.  

[The Whitepaper](http://www.coins4favors.com/docs/C4F_Whitepaper.pdf)

The platform Coins4Favors is owned and developed by C4F Limited, a Hong Kong company. The founders are [Jens Schmidt](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jensschmidt/), German entrepreneur, and [Dennis Hillemann](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dennis-hillemann-a72b7b121/), German lawyer.


## Overview of the upcoming ICO

**Pre-sale**: May 15th - May 31st 2018

**ICO Crowdsale**: June 1st - July 30th 2018

* 100 Billion (100,000,000,000) total FavorCoins created, of which 70% are sold in the crowdsale.
* Only ETH accepted to participate in the crowdsale.
* Hard cap for the crowdsale is 33690 ETH, the sale will end upon reaching it.
* The ICO price is 0,05 ETH = 100,000 FavorCoins. In the pre-sale a 25% bonus is added during the first week and a 10% bonus during the second week.

Token distribution:

* 10% of tokens will be reserved for the team, not to be transferred to the team before 01.01.2020.
* 5% are reserved for bounty program as reward for referrals during the ICO phase
* 15% remains at C4F Ltd. for user incentives and salaries. The company will pledge 1 Billion FavorCoins to globally acting NGOs and UN programs to economically develop the mini-job service market in developing countries.

Interested individuals can register at the platform homepage before the start of the sale as AML & KYC whitelisting is necessary to participate.

## Airdrop and Bounty Programs

The C4F team has reserved the total of one billion FavorCoins for Premium AirDrop Campaign. The campaign will run until this amount is down to zero or the ICO ends (by July 31st, 2018).

[C4F Bounty at altcointrading.net/airdrops](https://www.altcointrading.net/airdrops/)

Below, you find a list of available bounties. A bounty does not have to be reserved but the activity needs to be reported via email to mail@c4f.io following the template:

*Subject: „Premium Airdrop Campaign: Reward request“*

*Message: „Dear Coins4Favors Team, I have fulfilled a condition of your Premium AirDrop campaign: [Enter the description of the condition you fulfilled as found in the list below]. Here is my link as a sign of proof: [Enter the link to the post, tweet, etc. to prove you fulfilled the condition]. Please send the FavorCoins to my ERC-20 compatible wallet: [Your ERC-20 wallet adress].“*

Please include the official tracking link in your bounty activity: `https://www.coins4favors.com?bid=1907`

**Supported Activities**


```
Bitcointalk.org

100 words post : 25.000 C4F
for members with >6 months membership and >200 posts: 50.000 C4F
for members with >12 months membership and >500 posts: 100.000 C4F

Reddit Cryptocurrency discussion

100 words post : 25.000 C4F
for members with >6 months membership and >200 posts: 50.000 C4F
for members with >12 months membership and >500 posts: 100.000 C4F

Bitcoinforum.com

100 words post : 25.000 C4F
for members with >6 months membership and >200 posts: 50.000 C4F
for members with >12 months membership and >500 posts: 100.000 C4F

Bitcoin.com

100 words post : 25.000 C4F
for members with >6 months membership and >200 posts: 50.000 C4F
for members with >12 months membership and >500 posts: 100.000 C4F

Facebook

Facebook Post with at least 100 words about our ICO
+ get at least 50 comments or likes for post: 25.000 C4F

Twitter

Tweet about our ICO, mention @Coins4FavorsICO
+ get at least 100 retweets or likes for post: 25.000 C4F

Blog Post

Post on personal blog with at least 500 words about our ICO:
10.000–50.000 C4F depending on user / viewer count

LinkedIn

Article with at least 500 words about our ICO: 50.000 C4F

Medium

Article with 200 words about the Coins4Favors ICO: up to 25.000 C4F
Article with 500 words about the Coins4Favors ICO: up to 100.000 C4F
(articles require at least 100 views and 20 claps)
```
