---
published: true
layout: press
contact: "CrowdIF / contact@crowdif.com"
stories: true
genres: PressRelease
guest: false

date: 2018-06-07 15:05:00 -0300
title: "CrowdIF Token Sale Announcement"
description: "CrowdIF is launching a trading platform and a utility token that is starting a token sale in June 2018. There is a bounty active since May 2018."

author: "https://twitter.com/CrowdIf"
author_name: "CrowdIF"

editor_name: "JMT"

comments: false
tickers: false

slug: crowdif/
german: false
cz: false

image:
- "/features/2018/crowdif.png"
image_alt:
- "crowdif.com Press Release"

categories: ["press", "news", "features"]
tags: [ "crowdif", "token-sale"]

about:
 name: "crowdif"
 sameas: ["https://www.crowdif.com/home"]
---

*LONDON* – CrowdIF is a new platform on the Ethereum blockchain that is setting up to collect public sentiment data in order to project the price development of a selected project's token.

CrowdIF is launching a trading platform and a utility token that is starting a token sale in June 2018. There is a bounty active since May 2018.

## About CrowdIF

CrowdIF is a trading platform that is capable of harnessing the power of the *Collective Intelligence of the Crowd* and includes it in a major way in its crypto-trading strategy. CrowdIF is capable of objectively gathering something as abstract as market sentiment and quantify it. This is called the quantified market sentiment or SentimentScore&trade;.

## Why Crowd Sentiment

As is widely known, market sentiment plays a vital role in defining the direction of crypto market movements. Capitalizing upon SentimentScore gives CrowdIF an edge to consistently outperform the market.

## The CrowdIF Process

The Collective Intelligence of Crowd is a four step process:

* High Quality Data Aggregation
The system aggregates realtime data using crawling and scraping algorithms. Part of the data aggregation is community-sourced, users who contribute earn CIFcoins.

* Realtime Sentiment Analysis
Natural Language Processing and advanced mathematical modeling are used to perform realtime sentiment analysis. The product is the proprietary SentimentScore&trade;.

* Price Predictions
The sentiment analysis results are combined with other market signals to make price movement predictions with unprecedented accuracy.

* Insight based Trading
The CrowdIF trading algorithms trade 24x7 across cryptocurrency markets.

[Whitepaper (PDF)](https://www.crowdif.com/docs/CrowdIF_Whitepaper.pdf)


## About The Team

**Team and existence of an incorporated company are unverified.**

## Token Sale Info - $CIF

**Purposes of $CIF**

- To function as a medium of value exchange for all transactions happening on the CrowdIF platform
- To act as an index of users' portfolio on CrowdIF platform
- To reward the users who help CrowdIF in its data aggregation efforts
- To reward the beneficiaries of our various other bounty programs

Total tokens available for ICO = 16.6 million (40% of the total supply)

```
ICO Round 1
Token Price: 0.80$ - 1.25$
Tokens available for sale: 1,600,000

ICO Round 2
Token Price: 1.26$ - 1.50$
Tokens available for sale: 5,000,000

ICO Round 3
Token Price: 1.51$-2.00$
Tokens available for sale: 10,000,000
```

Minimum purchase = 70$

Soft Cap = $4,500,000

Hard Cap = $26,015,000

```
Token distribution
==================
For sale during ICO period - 40%
Company reserve - 15%
Bounty Programs - 6%
ESOPs - 4%
Planned slow emission over the next 10 years - 35%


Fund Allocation
===============
Core SentimentScore Algorithm Development: 34%
Advertising and Marketing: 28%
Data Aggregation Technology Development: 14%
Technology Infrastructure (Clusters, Servers etc.): 12%
Operational Expenses: 9%
Other Payroll: 2%
Legal: 1%
```


To learn more about the project, the bounty or the token sale, please visit: [www.crowdif.com](https://www.crowdif.com/home/?ref=jmtatnet)
