---
published: true
layout: press
contact: "Darren Toh / darren@blockpr.io"
stories: true
genres: PressRelease
guest: false

date: 2018-05-15 01:05:00 -0300
title: "The KYC and compliance platform traceto.io adds John Ng to its advisory board"
description: "Traceto.io announces the prominent blockchain investor to join as strategic advisor."

author: "mailto:darren@blockpr.io"
author_name: "Darren Toh (blockpr.io)"

editor_name: "JMT"

comments: false
tickers: false

slug: tracetoio/
german: false
cz: false

image:
- "/features/2018/traceto.png"
image_alt:
- "Traceto.io Press Release"

categories: ["press", "news", "features"]
tags: [ "traceto.io", "traceto-io", "john-ng", "erc20", "simon-kim", "loi-lui", "Ooi-Beng-Chin" ,"Wong-Lee-Hong", "Nizam-Ismail", "kyber-network", "signum-capital", "yzBigData", "sentinel-protocol", "republic-protocol", "Hashed", "lehman-brothers-singapore", "Citigroup"]

about:
 name: "Traceto.io"
 sameas: ["https://traceto.io/"]
---

> traceto.io has assembled a team of influential industry heavy-weights as investors and advisors including John Ng from Signum Capital to help propel its traceto.io KYC and compliance platform to the next level by ensuring a continuing flow of new clients and partners


**We have also published an interview with the CEO of traceto.io - [Chionh Chye Kit: We expect the nexus between KYC and credit risk in the blockchain industry](/traceto-interview/)**


*SINGAPORE* – traceto.io continues to gather momentum with the announcement of prominent ICO advisor and investor John Ng.

John Ng’s established and highly-regarded reputation as an active deal-maker in both traditional and emerging industries such as cryptocurrency will be a powerful strategic asset for traceto.io as it consolidates its position as a major player in the blockchain sector.

John is also the co-founder and partner of influential blockchain consulting and investment firm Signum Capital and now will act as a key strategic advisor to traceto.io.

**About Signum Capital**

Signum Capital is a Singapore-based firm that exclusively consults in Blockchain-enabled companies. Its mission is to realize the future of Blockchain economy by consulting in game changing projects and companies. It participates in Pre-sale stages of Token Generation Events and Equity investments.

**Signum Capital**, which is also an early backer of traceto.io, will mobilize its significant resources and deep blockchain network to help bring other strategic partnerships, reputable investors and connections to drive the project forward.

Already in Signum’s portfolio are a range of highly-regarded blockchain projects, including **Kyber Network, Sentinel Protocol and Republic Protocol**, which have all previously relied on traceto.io’s parent company Cynopsis’ compliance services for running KYC.

## About traceto.io

traceto.io is a decentralized Know Your Customer (KYC) network that seeks to bridge the regulatory and compliance gap between the real and virtual worlds.

traceto.io seeks to develop a network based on its extensive KYC framework that will satisfy real-world regulations. It will also provide an ongoing due diligence process that is demonstrable to regulators and fuse smart contracts with A.I. to promote regulatory inclusion.

## About The Team

The traceto.io project has also already lined-up a stellar team of advisors, including blockchain industry heavy-hitters such as:

* Simon Kim, CEO& Partner of Hashed - Korea’s largest crypto assets fund, accelerator and community builder

* Dr Loi Lui, Founder & CEO of Kyber Network - a decentralised cryptocurrency exchange and rising-star project in the Ethereum ecosystem

* Professor Ooi Beng Chin - National University of Singapore Chair Professor - prominent computer science academic and co-founder of big data firm yzBigData, and AI data-driven financial analytics company Shentilium

* Wong Lee Hong, veteran business development operator in various tech industries, venture capital investments, banking industry technology regulatory management, and blockchain project advisory (including for Kyber Network)

* Nizam Ismail, Partner at RHT Law - prominent financial services regulatory compliance and litigation lawyer with over 25 years experience in the industry including with Morgan Stanley, Lehman Brothers Singapore, Nomura Singapore, and Citigroup

The traceto.io platform has been moving forward in leaps and bounds to realize its vision of being a model for industry best-practice and largest provider of of compliance services to blockchain companies and individual investors. With the advisory board and strategic partnerships it has now assembled, traceto.io will have guaranteed access to an ongoing stream of significant new high-value projects to add to its already huge compliance and KYC services portfolio. Leveraging the networks of its advisors, the founders of traceto.io also expect to be announcing new strategic partnerships, clients and investors in weeks to come.

To learn more about traceto.io visit: [https://traceto.io/](https://traceto.io/)
