---
orderby: a
genres: Blog
published: true
date: 2019-09-28 00:41:00 +0000
note: 'Real Data'


identifier: dca102019
layout: strategy
series: Hodl

title: "The Case for DCA"
description: "Actually crunching the numbers for you."
slug: "dollar-cost-averaging/"

image: ["/strat/dca.jpg", "/strat/dca/btcusd-trend.png"]
image_alt: ["Dollar cost averaging bitcoin can be a profitable bullish strategy."]

author: "https://www.altcointrading.net"
author_name: "AltcoinTrading.NET"
author_twitter: "@altcointrading_"
categories: ["trading"]
tags: [ "hodl-strategy", "crypto-investment-strategy", "trading-strategy", "dollar-cost-averaging"]

related:
- {"Strategy - On Lending": "/strategy/lending/"}
- {"Ichimoku cloud - Does it make sense to tweak the settings for crypto?": "/ichimoku-cloud/"}
- {"Are you better off trading bitcoin or forex?": "/crypto-trading-vs-forex-trading-review/"}

---


## Dollar Cost Averaging Definition

> Dollar cost averaging, or DCA for short, means investing certain set amount of money into an asset on a regular basis, disregarding the momentarily price action on the market.

DCA is a technique that has been strongly recommended by Warren Buffet. He probably wouldn’t approve of it for cryptocurrencies, though. The reason is, dollar cost averaging is effectively a way to build a position on a market where you have a strong long-term bullish bias. It is easy to see it was an easy low-cost and low-effort way to profit from the “eternal growth” of legacy capital markets.

#### Benefits of DCA

The benefits of dollar cost averaging show best in markets that have been slumping or ranging markets for a prolonged period of time when the trading volumes are low.

With low trading participation on the market the predictive powers of technical analysis decrease as well and because it is not a problem anymore to trade cryptocurrencies through legacy institutions with non-retail amounts of money, every market weakness can be hammered into an abrupt run in either direction.

The legacy capital market equivalent would be the comparison of buying physical precious metals, concluding it has good value to do that considering some broader market view, versus for instance leveraged speculation on the silver market where [JP Morgan provably held such a big multi-year short position](https://www.ft.com/content/2d7be5a6-d87a-11e9-8f9b-77216ebe1f17) that it was effectively naked.

## Dollar Cost Averaging Strategy

On a superficial glance it may seem as if DCA is a way to avoid making directional decisions for market. That is wrong though: With DCA you are avoiding short- to medium-term directional speculation which can be a very reasonable decision. In some market conditions there simply isn’t a good enough opportunity to trade on TA.

If you decide to dollar cost average your exposure to an asset, it is indeed a bigger commitment than with a short-term bet, but also a bigger commitment than simple hodling.

Long-term holders without a regular strategy have bought their stash in several (not many) splurges and since then idly follow the price development to see if the price got high enough for them to sell.

Over the span of a decade or two, the difference between “having a stash” and DCA amounts to suprisingly much.

#### How to Maximize Crypto DCA Benefits

Let’s crunch the numbers.

{% amp700 border {{page.image[1]}} {{page.image_alt[0]}} %}

The two tables below show the net worth for an investor who bought up a stash of 10, 50 or 200 BTC at 10k or under. You see how the value of the stash rises if BTC appreciates to 50k USD or more.

I would argue that 50k is a reasonable and quite conservative target within the next bull cycle, 100k would surprise me and I find it unlikely to happen in the next 5-10 years. It is included for those hodlers often do their math starting from how much they want their stash to be worth one day.

In these conditions, if you started with a stash of 10 BTC only, you have a chance of hitting 1 MM USD at best.

| Long-Term Stash Only: No DCA |  |  |  |
|------------------|------------------------------|---------------|----------------|
| BTCUSD | 10 000 US$ | 50 000 US$ |  |
| Stash | 10 | 50 | 200 |
| - Starting Value | 100 000 US$ | 500 000 US$ | 2 000 000 US$ |
| - Target Value | 500 000 US$ | 2 500 000 US$ | 10 000 000 US$ |

| Long-Term Stash Only: No DCA |  |  |  |
|------------------------------|---------------|---------------|----------------|
| BTCUSD | 10 000 US$ | 100 000 US$ |  |
| Stash | 10 | 50 | 200 |
| - Starting Value | 100 000 US$ | 500 000 US$ | 2 000 000 US$ |
| - Target Value | 1 000 000 US$ | 5 000 000 US$ | 20 000 000 US$ |

Now let’s throw monthly DCA into the mix.

I went to Quandl and took out monthly BTCUSD price data to retrieve the average of each monthly candle for as far back as possible. I threw linear regression onto it, which should be acceptable here - this is really only for illustration.

The line underpinning the BTCUSD longterm trend came as `152,8*x-1826` out of which we get an average monthly increment of 153 USD in the value of bitcoin. We need this number to figure out how much bitcoin a DCA investor affords every month, assuming their disposable income will not change.

If we start our imaginary DCA bitcoin journey at 10k a coin and assume the price to grow over 20 years to around 50k a coin, you will make 240 purchases in total. With monthly disposable income of 2k USD, you will make your first purchase at 10k that will get you 0,2 BTC. Assuming the fantasy linear growth, your last purchase for 2k USD should only be good for something over 0,04 BTC. In total you will progressively accumulate more than 20,5 BTC over 20 years.

Now, a lot depends on with how much you’ve started:

| Monthly DCA, 20 years |  |
|------------------------------|----------------|
| Disposable income | 2 000 US$ |
| Stash | 10 |
| Starting Stash (start value) | 100 000,00 US$ |
| Starting Stash (end value) | 500 000 US$ |
| BTC added | 20,65 |
| DCA Addition (end value) | 1 032 500 US$ |
| Total Final Net Worth | 1 532 500 US$ |

| Monthly DCA, 20 years |  |
|------------------------------|----------------|
| Disposable income | 2 000 US$ |
| Stash | 50 |
| Starting Stash (start value) | 500 000,00 US$ |
| Starting Stash (end value) | 2 500 000 US$ |
| BTC added | 20,65 |
| DCA Addition (end value) | 1 032 500 US$ |
| Total Final Net Worth | 3 532 500 US$ |

| Monthly DCA, 20 years |  |
|------------------------------|------------------|
| Disposable income | 2 000 US$ |
| Stash | 200 |
| Starting Stash (start value) | 2 000 000,00 US$ |
| Starting Stash (end value) | 10 000 000 US$ |
| BTC added | 20,65 |
| DCA Addition (end value) | 1 032 500 US$ |
| Total Final Net Worth | 11 032 500 US$ |

You see that for crypto investors who didn’t have a lot of money to invest in bulk at the start, DCA can really make a massive difference.

Let’s also see what happens when you increase your monthly disposable income:

| Monthly DCA, 20 years |  |
|------------------------------|----------------|
| Disposable income | 3 000 US$ |
| Stash | 10 |
| Starting Stash (start value) | 100 000,00 US$ |
| Starting Stash (end value) | 500 000 US$ |
| BTC added | 30,97 |
| DCA Addition (end value) | 1 548 500 US$ |
| Total Final Net Worth | 2 048 500 US$ |

You probably understand that the point of this exercise is to show how counter-productive it is to sit around, willing the price to move up. Invest and then go do something else.

In this model, you can add another half a million if you spend 3k a month instead of 2k a month. That doesn’t have to mean pay rise, your disposable income can also grow from the difference between living in a metropolitan area vs moving to a less trendy place. Unless your earnings depend on the virtue shell game of tech startups, it is absolutely doable to cut a lot of costs out just by making decisions that are not fueled by Kool Aid.

[CSV of the MS Excel gymnastics here.](/strat/dca/dca.csv)

## Dollar Cost Averaging Bitcoin and Other Crypto

To reiterate what we just did in the pervious section: Cryptocurrencies have the potential to increase in value greatly over the years, but please keep it real - nothing is guaranteed.

Even if your reasons to DCA in bitcoin are solid, I think it is still about finding the right balance. If you look at it as money for personal use only, at some point the differences will start to lose meaning.

You won’t able to spend it all and if you leave it to kids you might as well consider the money lost. I don’t think it warrants living extremely frugally for 20 years in order to die with 6 millions instead of 4 millions. But as always, you do you.

## Methods related to DCA

Lastly, it is worth mentioning an alternative strategy that sounds similar to DCA and could appeal to investors who tend to avoid risks. It is called Value Cost Averaging and while on surface it might look rational and reasonable, it does not actually make much sense in principle.

With Value Cost Averaging the investor makes regular purchases of an asset just like with DCA, but instead of the invested amount the value of the purchase asset is set. The point of VCA is to avoid unnecessarily high exposure to an asset that might have gotten ahead of itself in terms of its valuation. If you see you have been decreasing your stake every round of buying, it is essentially the signal for you to exit your position on someone else before the crashes never to recover.

It might be reasonable on the legacy markets, especially when you consider questionable areas like tech unicorn valuations. In cryptocurrency markets, higher volatility is the norm. Cryptocurrencies die but within the next month they might be already recovering. Other than for stablecoins, huge price level differences year-on-year are still to be expected for some time. What VCA will do for you on this kind of market is progressively decrease your exposure to an asset that is gaining you the most money.

## Summary

Dollar cost averaging in crypto is a method to progressively build an unleveraged position in your cryptoasset of choice. It is a good fit for you if you have a regular income and a bullish outlook on crypto for the long-term horizon.

Dollar cost averaging is a particularly good fit for you if you tick the previous two points plus you don’t currently have a massive long-term stash yet.

It might seem it is too late to invest, but monthly contributions over long period of time do add up.
