---
published: true
guest: false

date: 2017-11-29 16:02:00 +0700
update: 2017-11-30 14:06:00 +0700

author: tradingfanbois
author_name: tradingfanbois
author_twitter: '@tradingfanbois'

comments: false

stories: true
genres: Blog

layout: forestry
tickers: false

title: "Coinloop.io - New Tool for Crypto Traders"
description: "Coinloop, the crypto trader's dashboard, is a new no-ICO tool for crypto traders. It comes with a slick UI, signals from an AI script and it is for free."

permalink: "/coinloop"
german: false

image: ["/editorial/office.jpg", "/features/coinloop.png"]
image_alt: ["Bitfinex added fiat deposits and withdrawals for individual and corporate accounts. Berries image via Pexels."]

categories: ["no-ico", "trading"]
chart: []
tags: [ "no-ico", "coinloop", "trading", "altcoins", "cryptocurrency", "charting", "tool"]
---

Something new and free is steering the waters of cryptocurrency trading: a slick free tool to monitor the altcoin markets and stay on top of AI generated signals.

The tool is called [coinloop.io](https://coinloop.io) and it aims to be the "cryptocurrency dashboard".

The website is subscription based, so while the membership is free the owners cannot do otherwise but to collect your data and preferences.

Coinloop has a news section but for now they only feature Coindesk and Cointelegraph.

{% amp700 border {{page.image[1]}} {{page.image_alt[0]}} %}


Info about the tool was published on Reddit by one of the people who are in charge of coinloop, [u/Senorviva](https://www.reddit.com/u/senorviva).

His own words:

> We set out with the goal of creating an all in one cryptocurrency dashboard. I know that I personally open 19 tabs in the morning to look through to catch up and get on top of what is happening. Granted a few of those are similar for example, 3 or 4 slack channels and 3 or 4 trading view accounts and twitter feeds but we thought there should be a better way.


The folks from coinloop are currently asking for feedback - if you have something to say, you can do so [here on BitcoinMarkets](https://www.reddit.com/r/BitcoinMarkets/comments/7g2k2j/our_free_tool_is_finished_stage_one_of/). Mostly people are complaining about the site speed, the fact that you cannot select cryptocurrencies to follow (a feature that is in the works) and the shadow styling element in the chart. Some of the change requests have already been implemented in the meantime.

#### A pro-tip for traders

If you are the type of trader Senorviva mentions, that is someone who needs to open a bazillion of tabs every morning so see what's up on the street, but you are too paranoid to be using a third party subscription model tool, you can make use of a Chrome extension [Session Buddy](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/session-buddy/edacconmaakjimmfgnblocblbcdcpbko?hl=en) or of the [Ghost browser](https://ghostbrowser.com/). These are both third party tools as well of course but the owners are not crypto traders and the tools will more likely stay both well-maintained and free without anybody taking your data or preferences hostage.

**Even so, most of the features at Coinloop are available without signup. With Coinmarketcap's and Blockfolio's slacking design and features it is good to see there are alternatives cropping up.**

<em>You can now follow featured no-ICO projects in the section called surprisingly <a title="{{site.title}} No-ICO projects" href="/category/no-ico/">No-ICO&nbsp;Projects</a>.</em>
