---
published: false

layout: forestry
guest: false

date: 2018-03-04 15:35:00 -0300

title: "LeverJ Review: "
description: ""

author: https://twitter.com/tradingfanbois
author_name: tradingfanbois
author_twitter: "@tradingfanbois"

comments: true
identifier: 'leverjmarch18'

stories: true
genres: Blog
tickers: true

permalink: leverj/
german: false
cz: false

image:
- "/features/2018/leverj.jpg"
image_alt:
- "LeverJ is a crossover between a centralized and a decentralized exchange to provide the speed as well as the non-custodial trading."

categories: ["trading", "exchanges", "news"]
tags: [ "leverj", "leverj-io", "dex", "decentralized-exchange", "crypto-trading"]
chart: []

about:
 name: "leverj review"
 sameas: ["https://icobench.com/ico/leverj", "http://thetokeninvestor.com/leverj-review/"]
---

LeverJ is a cryptocurrency trading platform project brought by people who were behind Coinpit, a fully decentralized crypto exchange. LeverJ does no fit into the [no-ICO projects collection](/category/no-ico/) as it completed an ICO in November 2017 and a short awareness airdrop at the break of November and December 2017. The total amount of [$LEV tokens sold publicly and privately was almost 156MM LEV](https://blog.leverj.io/the-numbers-are-in-768668f00979). The token trades on OKEx since [late January 2018](https://blog.leverj.io/lev-token-listed-for-trading-on-worldclass-crypto-exchange-okex-20e1b695edf5) and the value of the token sale at the time of publishing is over 16MM USD. However, the tokens were sold in the ratio of 1 ETH to 3000 LEV meaning that at the current fiat rates of ETH and LEV the ICO investors are being at a loss.

The LeverJ team holds a percentage of the tokens, big part of which will be used to provide liquidity and support the platform operations.

Some of the people behind the LeverJ project are known old-timers from crypto voice chats and Slack groups - the CEO Bharath Rao, the community manager Alex Ward, the advisor Swapman. That is always good to see.

Now for the product. What is LeverJ aiming for?

#### Crossover between centralized and decentralized exchange

Decentralized exchanges are not a new thing, there are several of them (EtherDelta for one). But as the team behind [altcoin.io already pointed out](/altcoinio), decentralized exchanges work but only in a slow and tedious way. Pulling off a more complex trading strategy is difficult when the platform doesn't really work when you need it to work.

That is where some degree of centralized control makes the operation more efficient. In March 2018 LeverJ has announced [partnership with Smart Contract Japan](https://blog.leverj.io/announcing-market-making-partnership-with-smart-contract-japan-9b26b21a3866)
