---
title:        "TradingView Black Friday 2019: 40-60% OFF the PRO plans"
categories:   [ 2019 ]
tags:         [ tradingview ]

---

##### TradingView PRO Pre-BlackFriday 2019: Pay in Bitcoin Promo Deal

{{ site.stars.three }}

TradingView has an offer for crypto traders to promote their new payment option - Bitcoin. Previously, you were only able to pay your TradingView PRO with Paypal but since February 2019, a BTC payment option is added.

The price for the **unlimited TradingView** subscription with bitcoin payments is **fixed at 0.09 BTC per year**, and so the USD price for your TradingView PRO varies with the changes in BTCUSD price.

##### TradingView Black Friday Deal 2019: 40-60% Discount on yearly plans

{{ site.stars.five }}

TradingView Black Friday offer is pretty regular year after year, and 2019 was no exception.

The yearly TradingView paid plans get a Black Friday discount in the range of 40-60% when paid all at once.

**TradingView Black Friday Price 2019 Cost Breakdown:**

* PRO Plan **-40%:** <s>180 USD/year</s> 108 USD/year ~ **9 USD/month**
  - 2 charts per tab, 5 saved layouts, 5 indicators per layout
  - **[GET TradingView FREE to get this deal the next Black Friday](http://bit.ly/at-tvd-btcusd)**
* PRO+ Plan **-50%:** <s>360 USD/year</s> 179.4 USD/year ~ **14.95 USD/month**
  - 2 charts per tab, 10 saved layouts, 10 indicators per layout
  - **[GET TradingView FREE to get this deal the next Black Friday](http://bit.ly/at-tvd-btcusd)**
* PREMIUM Plan **-60%:** <s>720 USD/year</s> 287.8 USD/year ~ **23.98 USD/month**
  - 2 charts per tab, unlimited saved layouts, 25 indicators per layout
  - **[GET TradingView FREE to get this deal the next Black Friday](http://bit.ly/at-tvd-btcusd)**

Conditions to get the TradingView Black Friday discount:

* Paid in a single instalment for the whole year's worth.
* Payments are always available via Paypal, most debit cards and some credit cards.
* Bitcoin payments are available for some of the plans.

You can always <a>start with <a href="http://bit.ly/tvd20gp-en" rel="nofollow">TradingView FREE plan</a></b> and if you keep using it, the user interface <b>will nag you with the Black Friday offers</b> once they open this year.
