---
title:        "ETERNAL Black Friday: Crypto Discount Deals *before* Black Friday 2020"
categories:   [ live ]
tags:         [ ledger, billfodl ]
image:
- 'https://res.cloudinary.com/atnetcloud/image/upload/c_lpad,h_360,w_700/v1588053412/atnet/altcoin-wallets/Screen_Shot_2020-04-28_at_12.55.57_zikwqu.jpg'
- 'https://res.cloudinary.com/atnetcloud/image/upload/c_scale,h_360,w_700/v1599121689/atnet/altcoin-wallets/Screen_Shot_2020-09-03_at_15.26.51_fsoxdd.jpg'
---

<div id="live-ledger"></div>

### September 2020 Ledger Deal: Ledger Family Pack

`Offer gives 6-21% Discount per ledger wallet`

{{ site.stars.five }}

Ledger wallet keeps with their usual strategy of discounting wallet bundles through the year, and in 2020 we get 3 different Ledger wallet bundles.

You can get multiple Nano S devices, multiple Nano X wallets or the baxkup pack which has one of each.

The discount is higher if your pack has more of Nano S wallets, as the Ledger Nano S is the older product.

##### 2020 Ledger Backup Pack Discounts:

* **Ledger Nano S family Pack**: 3x Ledger Nano S ~ **21% off**
  * [GO TO OFFER](http://bit.ly/ebf-nanos3x)
* **Ledger Backup Pack**: 1x Ledger Nano S + 1x Ledger Nano X ~ **18% off**
  * [GO TO OFFER](http://bit.ly/ebf-bakp)
* **Ledger Nano X family Pack**: 3x Ledger Nano X ~ **16% off**
  * [GO TO OFFER](http://bit.ly/ebf-nanox3x)


{% amp700cloud page.image[0] %}


##### Why it's good to have more than one hardware wallet

The best way to make use of the Ledger discount code deal is to have as big a total bill as possible:

* You can buy Ledger Nano X to use as your cold-ish storage. The Ledger Nano X is a Bluetooth® enabled secure device that stores the private keys of your cryptocurrencies. It has extended memory capacity, which means it can house keys of more cryptocurrencies than Ledger Nano S.
* Ledger Nano S is cheaper but can pretty much operate with a single crypto on it only, due to the small memory. That makes it ideal for a single-purpose wallet.
* So, if you trade mostly with, say, Bitcoin as your base currency, Ledger Nano S is the most time-, cost- and security-efficient wallet to serve as your trading wallet.

It's also useful to have a separate wallet for the darknetmarkets. Speaking purely hypothetically of course.

<div id="live-billfodl"></div>

### Wallet Bundle Deal at BillFodl: Steel Plate + Trezor hardware wallet

{% amp700cloud page.image[1] %}

The current bundle offer at BillFodl are **bundle deals on the Billfodl** stainless steel seed storage plates **with Trezor wallets**. At various price points you can get Billfodls with Trezor One or Trezor T.

Super conventient if you are in the US as BillFodl ships from the US.

##### What is Billfodl?

{% include product/billfodl-about.html %}
